Verify that on downloading whatsapp application, user can register using a new mobile number.
Verify that for a new mobile number user will get a verification code on his mobile and filling the same verifies the new user account.
Check the maximum number of incorrect attempts allowed while filling the verification code.
Verify that registering an existing mobile number for new user account registration is not allowed.
Verify that on successful registartion all the contacts in user's contact directory get imported to whatsapp contact list.
Verify that user can set DP and status on whatsapp.
Verify that user can update existing DP and whatsapp status.
Verify that user can send message to any individual selected from his contact list.
Verify that 'Chats' window contains all the chat list with DP and name and last message preview of the other person with whome chat was initiated.
Verify that clicking a chat in the chat list opens a new window containing all the chats received and sent with the other person.
Verify that user can check the message delivered and read time for a message in the 'Message Info' section.
Verify that user can share or receive a contact with the other person.
Verify that user can create a group adding multiple person from his contact list.
Verify that user can send and receive message in group chats.
Verify that user can send and receive images, audio, video, emoticons in chat to individuals.
Verify that user can send and receive images, audio, video, emoticons in group chats.
Verify that user can send and receive chats in secondary languages available.
Verify that user can delete text, images, audio, video messages within a chat.
Verify that user can clear complete chat history in an individual or group chat.
Verify that user can archive chats in an individual or group chat.
Verify that user can block a user to prevent any message from getting received from the blocked contact.
Verify that user make whatsapp calls to the person in his contact list.
Verify that user can receive whatsapp calls from person in his contact list.
Verify that user can mark chats as favorite and access all chats marked as favorite from the 'Favorites' section.
Verify that user can set a chat wallpaper.
Verify that user set privacy settings like turning on/off last seen, online status, read receipts etc.
Verify that user can update notification settings like - notification sound, on/off, show preview for both group and individual chats.
Verify that user can take the comlpete chat backup of his chats.
Verify that user update his phone number that is used by whatsapp application.
Verify that user can disable/delete his whatsapp account.
Verify that user can check data usage by umages, audio, video and documents in whatsapp chats.
