                                                                                                                                                                                                                  comprehension:1

The most avid users of social-networking websites may be exhibitionist teenagers, but when it comes to more grown-up use by business people, such sites have a surprisingly long pedigree. LinkedIn, an online network for professionals that signed up its ten-millionth user this week, was launched in 2003, a few months before MySpace, the biggest of the social sites. Consumer adoption of social networking has grabbed most attention since then. But interest in the business uses of the technology is rising. Many companies are attracted by the marketing opportunities offered by community sites. But the results can be painful. Pizza Hut has a profile on MySpace devoted to a pizza-delivery driver called Ted, who helpfully lets friends in on the chain's latest promotional offers (?Dude, I just heard some scoop from the Hut,   ran one recent post). Wal-Mart started up and rapidly closed down a much-derided teenage site called The Hub last year. Reuters hopes to do better with its forthcoming site for those in the financial-services industry. Social networking has proved to be of greatest value to companies in recruitment. Unlike a simple jobs board, social networks enable members to pass suitable vacancies on to people they know, and to refer potential candidates back to the recruiter. So employers reach not only active jobseekers but also a much larger pool of passive candidates through referrals. LinkedIn has over 350 corporate customers which pay up to $250,000 each to advertise jobs to its expanding network. Having lots of people in a network increases its value in a ?super-linear   fashion, says Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn's founder. He says corporate use of his service is now spreading beyond recruiters: hedge funds use it to identify and contact experts, for example. Jobster, a Seattle-based social-networking site, is entirely devoted to recruitment. Jobseekers can post their own profiles and tag their skills; these tags are then used to match candidates against jobs posted by employers. Unlike on LinkedIn, companies can set up private networks to ensure that the right kinds of people are alerted to openings and that the data they post remain under their control. Information needs to stay behind when a user leaves the company, argues Jason Goldberg, Jobster's founder. Where LinkedIn emphasises scale and Jobster emphasises specialisation, Visible Path, a startup based in New York, focuses on the strength of individual relationships. The firm analyses email traffic, calendars and diary entries to identify the strongest relationships that exist inside and outside a company. An obvious application is to generate leads: a salesman can use the service to identify who within his network has the closest links to a prospect, and request an introduction. Such techniques are also gathering momentum in ?knowledge management  . IBM recently unveiled a social-software platform called Lotus Connections, due out in the next few weeks, that lets company employees post detailed profiles of themselves, team up on projects and  share bookmarks. One manufacturer testing the software is using it to put inexperienced members of its customer-services team in touch with the right engineers. It can also be used to identify in-house experts. Software firms will probably start bundling social features of this kind into all sorts of business software. To work well in the business world, social networking has to clear some big hurdles. Incentives to participate in a network have to be symmetrical, for one thing. The interests of MySpace members—and of jobseekers and employers—may be aligned, but it is not clear why commission-hungry salespeople would want to share their best leads with colleagues. Limiting the size of the network can reduce its value for companies, yet confidentiality is another obvious concern for companies that invite outsiders into their online communities. ?Social networking sounds great in theory, but the business benefits are still unproven,   says Paul Jackson of Forrester, a consultancy. But if who you know really does matter more than what you know, it has obvious potential.
1.     What is the author of the passage most likely to agree to?
Option 1 : Social networking has benefited corporate sector to a large extent.
Option 2 : Social networking is not useful for corporate sector.
Option 3 : Social networking may benefit the corporate sector to some extent..........(correct)
Option 4 : None of these
2.     According to the author, how does social networking help recruitment?
Option 1 : By increasing the reach in a super-linear fashion.
Option 2 : Making available a larger pool of passive candidates...........(correct)
Option 3 : Since enthusiastic teenagers are also on the network.
Option 4 : None of these
3.     Which of the following is an appropriate title for the passage?
Option 1 : Social Networking and Business............(correct)
Option 2 : Social Networks                      Option 3 : Ethics of Social Networking in Business
Option 4 : Social Networking: Pros and Cons
4.     Which of the following statements is Reid Hoffman most likely to agree to?
Option 1 : Social network is only useful for recruiting.
Option 2 : Social networking has other uses apart from recruiting.............(correct)
Option 3 : Social networking has not impacted business much.
Option 4 : The prime use of social networking is for Hedge funds.
5.     What meaning of avid could you infer from the passage?
Option 1 : Dormant           Option 2 : Unprincipled    Option 3 : Unwanted        4 : Enthusiastic...............(correct)
6.     What is the most probable context in which the author is talking about Pizza Hut?
Option 1 : Social networking did not benefit it.
Option 2 : Social networking was a big success for it.
Option 3 : Social networking created problems for it............(correct)        4 : None of these
                                                                                                                                             

                                                                                                                                                                                                       comprehension:-2
AT THE end of the 19th century, India's maharajahs discovered a Parisian designer called Louis Vuitton and flooded his small factory with orders for custom-made Rolls-Royce interiors, leather picnic hampers and modish polo-club bags. But after independence, when India's princes lost much of their wealth, the orders dried up. Then in 2002 LVMH, the world's largest luxury-goods group, made a triumphant return to India, opening a boutique in Delhi and another in Mumbai in 2004. Its target was the new breed of maharajah produced by India's liberalised economy: flush, flash, and growing in number.
Other purveyors of opulence followed, from Chanel to Bulgari. In recent months a multitude of swanky brands have announced plans to set up shop in India, including Dolce & Gabbana, Hermès, Jimmy Choo and Gucci. And Indian women will soon be invited to spend over $100 on bras made by La Perla, an Italian lingerie firm. Only a tiny fraction, of course, will do so. But it is India's future prospects that have excited the luxury behemoths.
India has fewer than 100,000 dollar millionaires among its one billion-plus population, according to American Express, a financial-services firm. It predicts that this number will grow by 12.8% a year for the next three years. The longer-term ascendance of India's middle class, meanwhile, has been charted by the McKinsey Global Institute, which predicts that average incomes will have tripled by 2025, lifting nearly 300m Indians out of poverty and causing the middle class to grow more than tenfold, to 583m.
Demand for all kinds of consumer products is about to surge, in short. And although restrictions on foreign investment prevent retail giants such as Wal-Mart and Tesco from entering India directly, different rules apply to companies that sell their own products under a single brand, as luxury-goods firms tend to. Since January 2006 they have been allowed to take up to 51% in Indian joint ventures. India is also an attractive market for luxury goods because, unlike China, it does not have a flourishing counterfeit industry. Credit is becoming more easily available. And later this year Vogue, a fashion magazine, will launch an Indian edition.
Barriers to growth remain, however. High import duties make luxury goods expensive. Rich Indians tend to travel widely and may simply buy elsewhere. Finding suitable retail space is also proving a headache. So far most designer boutiques are situated in five star hotels.
But things are changing. Later this year Emporio, a new luxury-goods mall, will open in a prosperous neighborhood in the south of Delhi. It is likely to be the first of many. Even so, India could remain a difficult market to crack. Last October the Luxury Marketing Council, an international organization of 675 luxury-goods firms, opened its India chapter. Its boss, Devyani Raman, described India's luxury-goods market as “a cupboard full of beautiful clothes with a new outfit arriving every day—it could start to look messy without the right care”. This, she said, included everything from teaching shop assistants appropriate manners to instilling in the Indian public a proper understanding of the concept of luxury. “How do you educate them”, she asked, “about the difference between a designer bag that costs $400 and a much cheaper leather bag that functions perfectly well?”
1.     Who are the 'new breed of Maharajas' ?
Option 1 : Maharajas who recovered their wealth in 2004.
Option 2 : The children of the older Maharajas.
Option 3 : The new class of rich people which emerged in India post liberalisation......................(correct)
Option 4 : None of these
2.     What is the author most likely to agree to as the reason for the inflow of luxury good groups in India?
Option 1 : The fast growth in Indian economy leading to bright future prospects..............(correct)
Option 2 : To serve 'the new breed of maharajas'.
Option 3 : To serve the tiny fraction of high income groups in India.     Option 4 : None of these
3.     Why do different rules apply to Wal-Mart and luxury good firms?
Option 1 : India is encouraging luxury goods while it doesn’t encourage Wal-Mart.
Option 2 : India is an attractive market for luxury goods.
Option 3 : There are different rules for retail firms and those that sell their own product........................(correct)
Option 4 : India does not have a flourishing counterfeit industry.
4.     What does Devyani Raman's statement imply?
Option 1 : Beautiful clothes are an important luxury item and should be taken care of.
Option 2 : The luxury goods market is becoming disorganized....................(correct)
Option 3 : The supply of beautiful clothes is very high.                  Option 4 : None of these
5.     What could be the meaning of the word modish, as can be inferred from the context it is used in first line of the passage?
Option 1 : Unattractive                Option 2 : Stylish..................(correct)    Option 3 : New       Option 4 : Beautiful
6.     What is the author most likely to agree to?
Option 1 : The current number of dollar millionaires in India is very high.
Option 2 : The current number of dollar millionaires in India is low.......................(correct)
Option 3 : The current number of dollar millionaires in India match world average.
Option 4 : None of these
7.     What is a good estimate of the middle class population in India today as inferred from the passage?
Option 1 : 583m                 Option 2 : 100,000            Option 3 : 58m...............(correct)       Option 4 : 300m
8.     According to the author, which of these is not a problem for the luxury good firms in the Indian market?
1.     High import duty.             2 : Difficulty in finding retail space.

3.     Restriction on firms to enter Indian markets.........................(correct)            Option 4 : All of these



                                                                                                                                                                                               comprehension:-3
The economic transformation of India is one of the great business stories of our time. As stifling government regulations have been lifted, entrepreneurship has flourished, and the country has become a high-powered center for information technology and pharmaceuticals. Indian companies like Infosys and Wipro are powerful global players, while Western firms like G.E. and I.B.M. now have major research facilities in India employing thousands. India’s seemingly endless flow of young, motivated engineers, scientists, and managers offering developed-world skills at developing-world wages is held to be putting American jobs at risk, and the country is frequently heralded as “the next economic superpower.”
But India has run into a surprising hitch on its way to superpower status: its inexhaustible supply of workers is becoming exhausted. Although India has one of the youngest workforces on the planet, the head of Infosys said recently that there was an “acute shortage of skilled manpower,” and a study by Hewitt Associates projects that this year salaries for skilled workers will rise fourteen and a half per cent, a sure sign that demand for skilled labor is outstripping supply.
How is this possible in a country that every year produces two and a half million college graduates and four hundred thousand engineers? Start with the fact that just ten per cent of Indians get any kind of post-secondary education, compared with some fifty per cent who do in the U.S. Moreover, of that ten per cent, the vast majority go to one of India’s seventeen thousand colleges, many of which are closer to community colleges than to four-year institutions. India does have more than three hundred universities, but a recent survey by the London Times Higher Education Supplement put only two of them among the top hundred in the world. Many Indian graduates therefore enter the workforce with a low level of skills. A current study led by Vivek Wadhwa, of Duke University, has found that if you define “engineer” by U.S. standards, India produces just a hundred and seventy thousand engineers a year, not four hundred thousand. Infosys says that, of 1.3 million applicants for jobs last year, it found only two per cent acceptable.
There was a time when many economists believed that post-secondary education didn’t have much impact on economic growth. The really important educational gains, they thought, came from giving rudimentary skills to large numbers of people (which India still needs to do—at least thirty per cent of the population is illiterate). They believed that, in economic terms, society got a very low rate of return on its investment in higher education. But lately that assumption has been overturned, and the social rate of return on investment in university education in India has been calculated at an impressive nine or ten per cent. In other words, every dollar India puts into higher education creates value for the economy as a whole. Yet India spends roughly three and a half per cent of its G.D.P. on education, significantly below the percentage spent by the U.S., even though India’s population is much younger, and spending on education should be proportionately higher.
The irony of the current situation is that India was once considered to be overeducated. In the seventies, as its economy languished, it seemed to be a country with too many engineers and Ph.D.s working as clerks in government offices. Once the Indian business climate loosened up, though, that meant companies could tap a backlog of hundreds of thousands of eager, skilled workers at their disposal. Unfortunately, the educational system did not adjust to the new realities. Between 1985 and 1997, the number of teachers in India actually fell, while the percentage of students enrolled in high school or college rose more slowly than it did in the rest of the world. Even as the need for skilled workers was increasing, India was devoting relatively fewer resources to producing them.
Since the Second World War, the countries that have made successful leaps from developing to developed status have all poured money, public and private, into education. South Korea now spends a higher percentage of its national income on education than nearly any other country in the world. Taiwan had a system of universal primary education before its phase of hypergrowth began. And, more recently, Ireland’s economic boom was spurred, in part, by an opening up and expansion of primary and secondary schools and increased funding for universities. Education will be all the more important for India’s well-being; the earlier generation of so-called Asian Tigers depended heavily on manufacturing, but India’s focus on services and technology will require a more skilled and educated workforce.
India has taken tentative steps to remedy its skills famine—the current government has made noises about doubling spending on education, and a host of new colleges and universities have sprung up since the mid-nineties. But India’s impressive economic performance has made the problem seem less urgent than it actually is, and allowed the government to defer difficult choices. (In a country where more than three hundred million people live on a dollar a day, producing college graduates can seem like a low priority.) Ultimately, the Indian government has to pull off a very tough trick, making serious changes at a time when things seem to be going very well. It needs, in other words, a clear sense of everything that can still go wrong. The paradox of the Indian economy today is that the more certain its glowing future seems to be, the less likely that future becomes
1.     Which of these could you infer according to the passage?
Option 1 : Wages in the Developing countries are less as compared to wages in the developed countries.....................(correct)
Option 2 : Wages in the Developing countries are more as compared to wages in the developed countries
Option 3 : Wages in the Developing countries are same as wages in the developed countries
Option 4 : None of these
2.     What does “American jobs” in the last line of the first paragraph of the passage imply?
Option 1 : Jobs provided by American companies
Option 2 : Jobs held (or to be held) by American people....................(correct)
Option 3 : Jobs open to only American citizens
Option 4 : Jobs provided by the American government
3.     According to the passage, why India does not have enough skilled labour?
Option 1 : The total amount of young population is low
Option 2 : The total number of colleges are insufficient
Option 3 : Students do not want to study
Option 4 : Maximum universities and colleges do not match global standards........................(correct)
4.     What can you infer as the meaning of ‘stifling’ from the passage?
Option 1 : Democratic      Option 2 : Liberal   Option 3 : Impeding......(correct)          Option 4 : Undemocratic
5.     What is an appropriate title to the passage?
Option 1 : Growing Indian Economy    Option 2 : Higher education in India
Option 3 : India’s Skill Shortage,,...........(correct)             Option 4 : Entrepreneurship in India
6.     In the third sentence of the third paragraph of the passage, the phrase “closer to community colleges ” is used. What does it imply?
Option 1 : Near to community colleges           Option 2 : Like community colleges........................(correct)
Option 3 : Close association to community colleges            Option 4 : None of these
7.     According to the passage, what is the paradox of the Indian economy today?
a.     The economic progress is impressive, but the poor (earning one dollar per day) are not benefited.
b.     The economic progress is impressive disallowing the government to take tough decisions.......................(correct)
c.      There is not enough skilled workforce and the government does not realize this.
d.     Government is not ready to invest in setting up new universities.
8.     Why are salaries for skilled workers rising?
Option 1 : Companies are paying hire to lure skilled people to jobs.
Option 2 : American companies are ready to pay higher to skilled workers.
Option 3 : Entrepreneurship is growing in India.
Option 4 : There is not enough skilled workers, while the demand for them is high......................(correct)
                                                                                                                                                                                           comprehension:-4

The stratosphere—specifically, the lower stratosphere—has, it seems, been drying out. Water vapour is a greenhouse gas, and the cooling effect on the Earth’s climate due to this desiccation may account for a fair bit of the slowdown in the rise of global temperatures seen over the past ten years. These are the somewhat surprising conclusions of a paper by Susan Solomon of America’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and her colleagues, which was published online by Science on January 28th. Whether the trend will continue, stop or reverse itself, though, is at present unknown.

The stratosphere sits on top of the troposphere, the lowest, densest layer of the atmosphere. The boundary between the two, the tropopause, is about 18km above your head, if you are in the tropics, and a few kilometres lower if you are at higher latitudes (or up a mountain). The tropopause separates a rowdy below from a sedate above. In the troposphere, the air at higher altitudes is in general cooler than the air below it, an unstable situation in which warm and often moist air below is endlessly buoying up into cooler air above. The resultant commotion creates clouds, storms and much of the rest of the world’s weather. In the stratosphere, the air gets warmer at higher altitudes, which provides stability

The stratosphere—which extends up to about 55km, where the mesosphere begins—is made even less weather-prone by the absence of water vapour, and thus of the clouds and precipitation to which it leads. This is because the top of the troposphere is normally very cold, causing ascending water vapour to freeze into ice crystals that drift and fall, rather than continuing up into the stratosphere.

A little water manages to get past this cold trap. But as Dr Solomon and her colleagues note, satellite measurements show that rather less has been doing so over the past ten years than was the case previously. Plugging the changes in water vapour into a climate model that looks at the way different substances absorb and emit infrared radiation, they conclude that between 2000 and 2009 a drop in stratospheric water vapour of less than one part per million slowed the rate of warming at the Earth’s surface by about 25%.

Such a small change in stratospheric water vapour can have such a large effect precisely because the stratosphere is already dry. It is the relative change in the amount of a greenhouse gas, not its absolute level, which determines how much warming it can produce, and this change was about 10% of the total.

By comparison with the greenhouse effect caused by increases in carbon dioxide, the stratospheric drying is hardly massive. Dr Solomon and her colleagues peg the 2000-2009 cooling effect at about a third of the opposite effect they would expect from the carbon dioxide added over the same decade, and only a bit more than a twentieth of the warming expected from the rise in carbon dioxide since the industrial revolution. But it is surprising, nonetheless.

It is for the most part only in the tropics that tropospheric air can be drawn up into the stratosphere; it is also in the tropics that one finds the most spectacular thunderstorms, and these can reduce the temperature at the top of the troposphere, deepening the cold trap that ascending water vapour must pass through and thus impeding its rise. Over the past decade this stormy effect seems to have been pronounced, with the coldest parts of the tropical troposphere getting about a degree colder. But why this should be is not clear. Sea-surface temperatures, which drive the big tropical storms, have been high, and during the past few years have seemed to correlate with increased coldness aloft. At other times, though, they have seemed to predict a wetter stratosphere.

Dr Solomon cannot say what is driving the change she and her colleagues have studied, nor how long it will last. It may be one of many aspects of the climate that flop around, seemingly at random, over periods of years to decades. Or it might be something driven by a long-term change, such as the build-up of greenhouse gases (or, conceivably, layers of sooty smog). Dr Solomon suspects the former, because of the way the relationship between the stratosphere and the sea-surface temperature has changed. Patterns of sea-surface temperature which come and go, rather than absolute levels that continue to rise, may be the important thing.

That said, it is possible that the changes in the stratosphere are linked to the effects humans are having on the atmosphere at large, and that the drying may persist in providing a brake on warming. Or it may be, as others have suggested in the past, that the long-term trend, as the troposphere warms up, will be to a wetter, more warming lower stratosphere, too. Whether this is the case depends on physical subtleties that are currently undecided, but it is not implausible. If it were true, then the current drying would be more a blip than a trend.

A better understanding of matters as diverse as how water vapour actually gets across the tropopause and how the stratosphere circulates at the global scale might help sort the question out, and Dr Solomon’s high profile contribution may help focus researchers on those problems. Meanwhile, the good news (if further research bears it out) that the world’s warming has been slowed, at least for a few years, needs to be leavened with the realisation, yet again, that there are significant uncertainties in science’s understanding of the climate — and thus unquantifiable risks ahead.

A) What is the order of layers in the atmosphere, starting from the lowermost and going to the topmost?
a) Tropopause, Troposphere, Mesosphere, Stratosphere.
b) Troposphere, Tropopause, Stratosphere, Mesosphere.
c) Troposphere, Tropopause, Mesosphere, Stratosphere. bbcd
d) Troposhere, Stratosphere, Tropopause, Mesosphere.
Solution: Option b

B) What is the passage has been cited as the main reason affecting global temperatures?
a) Relative change in water vapour content in the Stratosphere.
b) Drop in Stratospheric water vapour of less than one part per million.
c) The extreme dropness in the Stratosphere.
d) Absorption and emission of infrared radiation by different substances.
Solution: Option b

C) Why is the situation in the troposphere defined as unstable?
a) Because, unlike the Stratosphere, there is too much water vapour in the Troposphere.
b) Because the Troposphere is not directly linked to the Stratosphere, but through the Tropopause which creates much of the world‘s weather.
c) Because of the interaction between warm and cool air which is unpredictable in nature and can leads to storms.
d) Because this layer of the atmosphere is very cloudy and can lead to weather related disruptions.
Solution: Option c

D) What accounts for the absence of water vapour in Stratosphere?
a) The layer of Stratosphere is situated too far above the water vapour to reach.
b) Rising global temperatures, leading to reduced water vapour that get absorbed in the Troposphere.
c) The greenhouse gas gets absorbed by the cloudes in the Troposphere and comes down as rain.
d) Before the vapour can rise up, it has to pass through below freezing temperatures and turns into ice.
Solution: Option d
Option 1 : Because it is used for knowledge management.
Option 2 : It has a feature to allow employees to interact and cooperate with each other...................(corrct)
Option 3 : Because IBM developed it.
Option 4 : Because the service team can get in touch with the right engineers using it.
8.     What are the hurdles that social networking has to overcome in order to benefit the business world?
Option 1 : Issue of confidentiality.                                Option 2 : Misalignment of interests.

Option 3 : Misalignment of interests and confidentiality.................(correct).  Option 4 : None of these
                                                                                                                                                                                 comprehension:-5

My phone rings again. It is futile to ignore it anymore. Maneesha is persistent. She will continue to bedevil me until I acquiesce. "Hello", I answer.
"The circus, Atika?" she says in her sing-song voice. "When are we going? Only two more days left!"
I abhor the Circus. The boisterous crowds, the overwhelming smell of animal feces, the insanely long lines with wailing children and the impossibility of finding a clean restroom all combine to make this an event that I dread.
For Maneesha, my best friend since the angst of middle school, the Circus is a sign

that divine powers really do exist.
"Really, Atika, where else can you pet an elephant, see a stuntman ride a horse,
laugh till you are ready to cry, see the world's smallest person and eat fried potatoes The fried food at the Circus is a gastronomical nightmare on its own. I once tried a
fried Cottage Cheese stick at the fair and was sick to my stomach for hours. And a fried burger with oil soaked potato patty, cheese, multicolored sauces AND a greasy slice of cottage cheese? How could that not be deleterious to your health?
I have not seen Maneesha for a good month; our schedules are both so hectic. My hatred of the Circus becomes inconsequential to my desire to hang with Mani.
Alas, I ignore my anti-Circus bias for the umpteenth year. "Pick me up at noon", I say and hang up the phone.
I) What does it mean to acquiesce?
a)To give in b)To speak kindly
c)To pay attention d)To answer the phone
Ans:(A)

II) What does the term gastronomical suggest? a)Enormous
b)Health risk
c)Culinary issue d)Resulting in gas
Ans:(C)

III) Why might the author have chosen to capitalize all the letters in the word "and" when writing about the burger she ate?
a)To make sure the reader understood it was a list
b)To show that a greasy slice of cottage cheese was the last ingredient
c)To highlight her dislike of greasy slice of cottage cheese
d)To emphasize how many ingredients were in the burge
Ans:(C)

IV) How does Maneesha seem to feel about the circus? a)Ambivalent
b)Condescending c)Jubilant
d)Nonchalant
Ans:(B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                comprehension:-6


The unique Iron Age Experimental Centre at Lejre, about 40 km west of Copenhagen, serves as a museum, a classroom and a place to get away from it all. How did people live during the Iron Age? How did they support themselves? What did they eat and how did they cultivate the land? These and a myriad of other questions prodded the pioneers of the Lejre experiment. Living in the open and working 10 hours a day, volunteers from all over Scandinavia led by 30 experts, built the first village in the ancient encampment in a matter of months. The house walls were of clay, the roofs of hay - all based on original designs. Then came the second stage - getting back to the basics of living. Families were invited to stay in the 'prehistoric village' for a week or twoat a time and rough it Iron Age-style. Initially, this experiment proved none too easy for modern Danes accustomed to central heating, but it convinced the centre that there was something to the Lejre project. Little by little, the modern Iron Agers learnt that their huts were, after all, habitable. The problems were numerous - smoke belching out from the rough-andready fireplaces into the rooms and so on. These problems, however, have led to some discoveries: domed smoke ovens made of clay, for example, give out more heat and consume less fuel than an open fire, and when correctly stoked, they are practically smokeless. By contacting other museums, the Lejre team has been able to reconstruct ancient weaving looms and pottery kilns. Iron Age dyeing techniques, using local natural vegetation, have also been revived, as have ancient baking and cooking methods

I)What is the main purpose of building the Iron Age experimental center?
a)Prehistoric village where people can stay for a week or two to get away from modern living
b)Replicate the Iron Age to get a better understanding of the time and people of that era
c)To discover the differences between a doomed smoke oven and an open fire to identify the more efficient of the two
d)Revive activities of ancient women such as weaving, pottery, dyeing, cooking and baking
Ans:(A)

II) What is the meaning of the sentence "Initially, this experiment proved none too easy for modern Danes accustomed to central heating, but it convinced the centre that there was something to the Lejre project."?
a)Even though staying in the huts wasn't easy for themodern people, the centre saw merit in the simple living within huts compared to expensive apartments
b)Staying in the huts was quite easy for the modern people and the centre also saw merit in the simple living within huts compared to expensive apartments
c)The way of living of the Iron Age proved difficult for the people of the modern age who are used to living in luxury
d)The way of living of the Iron Age proved very easy for the people of the modern age since it was hot inside the huts, and they were anyway used to heated rooms
Ans:(C)

III) What can be the title of the passage?
Modern techniques find their way into pre-historic villages Co-existence of ancient and modern times
Glad to be living in the 21st Century Turning back time
iv) From the passage what can be inferred to be the centre's initial outlook towards the Lejre project?
a) It initiated the project
b)It eagerly supported it
c)It felt the project was very unique
d)It was apprehensive about it
Ans:(A)
        